This capsule is presented by Canadian Heritage
[Background audio: sound of one-legged runner outdoors, breathing evenly; add cheering crowd]
Many consider Terry Fox the greatest Canadian
of all time. After losing a leg to cancer,
Fox set out in 1980 to run across the country
to raise money for cancer research. His quest,
known as the Marathon of Hope, attracted the
attention of more and more Canadians as he
made his way east from Newfoundland. Thousands
lined the streets and ran alongside him when
he passed through Ottawa on Canada Day.
A few months later, after running an incredible
5,300 kilometres—about a marathon every
day for more than four months—he was forced
to abandon the quest when the cancer spread
to his lungs. Terry Fox died in 1981, but
the courage and determination he showed continues
to inspire people around the world and has
helped raise hundreds of millions of dollars
for cancer research.
John Hooper, one of this country’s best-loved
sculptors, saw Terry Fox run when the Marathon
of Hope passed through New Brunswick. The
regional municipality of Ottawa Carleton commissioned
Hooper to create this bronze piece in 1983,
one of many erected across the country to
honour this hero. The sculpture captures Fox
mid-stride, his face a mixture of determination
and pride, his eyes focused intently on a
distant finish line.